This directory contains the `old' version of loom, which is distributed
for personal use only. Please do not distribute it further.  This
version of loom is intended C programs and contains some C dependencies.

The makefile details how to build loom. A manual page is in loom.1.

common.c is the common words program from which the program described
in the `Literate Programming' column in the Communications of the ACM,
vol. 30, no. 7, 594-599, July 1987 was derived. common.c also contains
the documentation, which is an expanded version of the CACM paper. This
documentation appeared in D. R. Hanson, `Printing Common Words', Tech.
Report 86-18, Dept. of Computer Science, Univ. of Arizona, May 1986.

Several readers found an error in the common words program presented in
the CACM paper and others suggested improvements.  This version of
common.c incorporates changes made in response to their comments.

The makefile also contains entries for making common, the executable
version of the common words program, and common.dvi, it's TeX
documentation. Both are constructed from common.c.

common.c is included as an example of loom usage. Since it uses several
unavailable filters and programs (e.g., prog, xref, and makeindex), it
is not possible to construct common.tex from common.c as shown in the
makefile.  These filters (and others) will be available in the next
version of loom.

In addition, common.tex depends on the TeX macro packages loommac.tex
and macros.tex, which are not included.  loommac.tex and macros.tex are
used to typeset loom documents in a style similar to Don Knuth's WEB
system. Other styles can be generated by using other macros.

David R. Hanson
Dept. of Computer Science
Princeton University
Princeton, NJ 08544
609 452-5598
drh@princeton.edu

9/19/87
